All right, guys.
So I decided to add on a little bonus here.
I want to actually make the contact form on our website work now that we're actually deployed and our
shared host has PHP installed, which is a programming language so we can execute PHP files.
And PHP has a very simple mail function that we can use to actually make this, this form work.
So what I'm going to do is have it submit to my Brad at edge ledger dot net email which you can see
my inbox right here now in the lecture files for this section or this lecture, I should say you're
going to have a zip file called contact and inside that you're going to have to files.
And I have that right here.
So you're going to have processed PHP and successfully HTML.
So we're just going to move those two files to our project, to our website locally, and I'm going
to go back into VS code with those two added files.
And in our index file we have our form which doesn't have any attributes.
So in order for the form to submit, we want to put an action and we want it to submit to process dot
PHP, it's going to submit to that PHP file.
And then we also want to add a method.
There's different types of HTTP methods.
We have a get request which is basically just when the page loads, it's a get request, but when you
submit a form, you want to make a post request to the server.
So we want to do method post and we'll save that.
And what that's going to do is it's going to submit to this process PHP file, which is a very, very
simple script.
I actually got it from the In Motion hosting documentation.
It's, it's very, very simple.
You probably want to add more validation and so on if you are going to if this is a production site.
But I just want to make it work.
So I'm just going to go through it.
And I know a lot of you probably don't know PHP, but it's just checking to see if the email field is
filled in this post.
Email pertains to our form input right here because the name is email.
All right.
So this is actually called a super global and it's looking for the name attribute of email.
So if that's filled in, it's going to proceed and it's going to create some variables.
This variable is the email that we want to submit to.
So you would change this to yours, and then we have the rest of these variables just pointing to whatever
text is filled in the form fields.
So for the name, email, phone and message, those will get put into variables which are like placeholders.
Then we're going to run a function called mail, which is a PHP function.
The first parameter is the email that it's going to send to, which is our admin email here.
And then the second is the subject of the email, which will be new form submission.
Of course you can change it if you want, and then the body is going to be the message and the phone
number.
That's what's going to be in the actual email body and then from is going to be whatever the user puts
in as their email.
And then once all that happens, once it sends, we're going to redirect using the header function.
So this will redirect us to a file called successor HTML, which I have right here.
So if we look at success in HTML, it's very simple.
We just have the nav bar minus the links and the footer.
And then here we just have a thank you message so I can show you this real quick.
If I just open with live server, actually, it opened on the wrong screen.
Hold on.
You just bring it over real quick.
All right.
So this is what it's going to look like.
Once you submit the form, it's just going to say thank you and then you can choose to go back to the
site.
So that's pretty much it.
Now, there's one other thing we need to change, and it's actually in our JavaScript file, the main
JS Now right here we were grabbing on to a click event for the nav bar, links for the smooth scrolling
as well as the class of button.
Now the class of button is also on the submit button here and inside the JavaScript.
What we're saying is, is to prevent the default behavior of the form or the button, I should say.
And since we have that class on our form button, it won't submit correctly.
So what I'm going to do is just get rid of the dot, BTN and the comma.
That way the smooth scrolling is only on the nav bar in the form should be able to submit.
So let's save that.
And now our website should be all set.
We just want to open up file zilla, go ahead and log in and we're just going to basically replace the
files that are there.
So I'm going to drag all of these over.
If it asks to overwrite, just say yes and now it should work.
So let's head over to Edge Ledger, dot net or whatever your whatever website you're using if you're
following along.
And I'm going to just reload and then fill this out real quick.
So I'll say John Doe email, let's do John Doe at Gmail.
I'll put a number here.
Just all fives and then a message.
We'll just say Hello world.
All right, so now I'm going to click Send.
Now what happened is it's submitted to the processed PHP file.
It ran that called the mail function so it should have sent and then redirected us to success dot html
and we can go back if we want.
Now I'm going to go to my inbox and I'm going to reload.
And we have an email from John at gmail.com and you can see the subject is new form submission because
that's what we put in the process PHP file and the body here is whatever we put in the message field
and whatever we put in the phone field.
So we now have a working contact form and I know that PHP is not part of this course, but I wanted
to at least have this be a full website where the form actually worked.
So hopefully you guys can appreciate that and that's it.
I'll see you in the next section.